You met the traveler on a fine spring morning. A blade of blue sky cut through the mountains, melting the last of
the snow in the well-traveled pass, but the guard’s scowl cast a burly shadow over your hopes.

"No toll, no passage," he proclaimed.

"I understand," you began again. "But I have no coins, for I’ve been traveling--"

"That’s none of my business, nor the queen’s," harrumphed the guard.

"It’s all right," came a soft voice from behind you. "This one can come in with me."

You both looked up to see a young woman standing behind you, arms folded over her chest. She was smiling slightly
and rested easily on her feet, neither slouching nor stiff.

The guard recovered quickly. "That’ll be thirty crows for each of you, then," he informed her.

Without saying a word, the traveler stepped past you and let a handful of coins fall into the guard’s expectant
hand. He counted it with a practiced glance, then nodded gruffly.

"On with you both, then. Good day."

As you walked through the gate, you turned to the traveler, now walking beside you as if she’d been there for
your entire journey.

"Thanks," you said. "That was kind of you."

"You’re welcome." She beamed. "What’s your name, stranger?"

You told her, and she repeated it with a nod.

"I’m Izzy. Nice to meet you."

At that moment, the two of you crested the last rise of the mountain pass and a wooded plain spread out before
you. The road stepped down ahead through long switchbacks before disappearing into forest. In the distance,
a smudge of blue promised the ocean.

"Well," Izzy asked, "Which way are you going?"

"I don’t know yet," you admitted. "I’m ... just exploring." The truth of your quest could wait for another day.

Izzy frowned pensively. "Well ... I’m going home across the ocean, but I’ll need to do some work to pay for
passage. If you’d like, you can join me. I’m sure I’ll find jobs in the towns we pass, and it would be nice
to have company for a while."

You readily agreed, and set out together down the moutain. As you hiked, you wondered where exactly Izzy hailed
from. On the small continent across the sea, there were three major regions: Kraeg, Jaywood, and Hiri. You knew
the three were very different in geography, commerce, and culture, but you had never been to any of them and didn't
know what exactly they were like. You resolved to keep your ears open, and learn what you could about the distant
places, as well as about Izzy.

It took the entire day to get down to level ground, and so you made camp for the night--the last roadside camp
for a while, you hoped.


The first town you stopped in boasted a large bank, catering particularly to merchants from distant lands. You
made good enough time to stop in before it closed, at long last changing your many foreign notes into hard local
currency. Izzy graciously accepted your invitation of dinner, and together you settled into a comfortable public
house for the evening.

Almost as soon as you sat down, a server appeared with two foaming glasses.

"I think there’s been a mistake," you said. "We haven’t ordered anything yet."

The server gave an expressionless nod towards the innkeeper behind the bar. "On the house."

When you looked up in surprise, the innkeep raised a muscular arm in greeting. "I don’t forget faces," she
explained, "And I know I haven’t seen yours before. Welcome to town."

"That’s very kind," said Izzy, taking a sip. The bartender beamed.

"Won’t have it said a Kraeg woman didn’t take care of her guests. They’d disown me back home!" She laughed. "What
brings you this way, strangers?"

You told the story of meeting Izzy at the mountain gate, then turned to her.

On the way down from the mountain, you had filled in your companion on your journey so far. Now you asked, "But
how did you happen to be at the pass that day? What's your story?"

Izzy tilted her head thoughtfully and began, "I grew up in a little stone house with just me and my uncle,
watching him sculpt." She rummaged around in her satchel and pulled out a hand-sized figurine of a bear, made of
soapstone. "Nice, right?"

"It’s beautiful," you agreed.

She beamed as she put it away. "I asked him to teach me, and he agreed. I spent my childhood helping out in the
workshop, and then mastering basic carving techniques. By the time I was fifteen, traders were buying my pieces
as well as his."

A sudden burst of cool air from the doorway heralded the arrival of a crowd. The innkeeper looked up to hail her
new customers, and Izzy seemed grateful for the chance to quickly finish her supper and excuse herself.

"I’m not much for crowds," she explained. "There were always just the two of us at home, and I’ve been traveling
alone for so long."

She bid you goodnight, and you spent your evening making friendly conversation with the other patrons. One of them,
you noticed, ribbed the innkeeper with the confidence of familiarity.

"How’s bar life treating you?" he inquired jovially. "Do you miss hauling stone yet?"

"Hauling stone?" you ask.

"Before this I worked at the quarry in Hiri," she explained.

"Aye, made her so tired she had to roll home down the mountain," her friend chortled.

"I’ll show you how tired it made me." The bartender flexed and made a fist, but the twinkle in her eye belied
the threat. "Besides, I only had to roll a little. Fell right into the river before long and just rafted the rest
of the way."

The regular grinned. "Bet you were a strange sight floating into the docks at Jaywood."

"Have you seen the kind of strange traffic they get on that river? I don’t think anyone batted an eyelash."

By this time, weariness was weighing on your shoulders. You left your company to their banter, paid for your meal,
and took yourself to bed. You were ready for a long rest in a good clean bed before another day of walking tomorrow.


The second town you approached was built around a busy crossroads. People from all over the valley came and went
through its many open gates, and the center of town boasted a bustling marketplace. Izzy looked uncomfortable,
and strode quickly through the square, peering closely at the market stalls.

"You were telling me about growing up and learning stone carving," you encouraged after a moment.

Izzy nodded and continued. "One day my uncle bought an incredible stone from a traveling trader: a large carnelian,
still rough and unpolished. He saw the promise in it and set it aside for a later work, but he never told me what
he had in mind.

"For years the carnelian waited on a shelf in his workshop, and as my skills improved I grew sure I could make it
into something beautiful. But every time I asked, he told me no, no, he had something in mind, no, not yet."

Izzy sighed.

"I didn’t believe him. I assumed he just thought I wasn’t ready, that he would rather let the carnelian gather
dust forever than permit me to let out its potential. Finally one day, my uncle left me alone to go visit one of
my cousins. I decided to do it. I would carve the stone and make something beautiful to show him when he got back."

Izzy hung her head and was quiet for a moment. You waited in silence until she was ready to continue.

"I broke it," she said at last. "Not just a crack or a blemish--I slipped and let the drill pierce the center. It
hit a weak point and split into two halves. It’s a wonder my fingers are intact, I was so careless. Although
sometimes I wish I’d broken a finger instead of the gem." Tears welled up at the memory, and she brushed them
away lightly. "I was sure he would never forgive me. I was so ashamed that I threw both pieces into  the lake
outside our door. I wanted to just run away, or give up carving forever. But I knew that wouldn’t fix anything,
and I couldn’t put the carnelian back together. There was only one thing I could do that would actually help."

Izzy was interrupted by a shout of "FRESH FISH!" so close behind your head that it made you jump.

"Fresh?" queried Izzy, raising an eyebrow. The paper-wrapped package looked delicious, but was clearly seasoned
and dried.

The merchant grinned. "It turned your head, now, didn’t it? Dried freshwater lake fish, all the way from
Hiri. Delicious! And you won’t find it anywhere else around these parts. Try a piece, I know you can’t
resist!" She held out a meager sample.

Izzy chuckled and shook her head. "No, thank you."

At the next stall over, however, she stopped to pick up a ceramic bowl and turned it over slowly, admiring the
glaze. "You see this pattern?" she asked you, pointing. "I’ve seen this before. It marks it as from one of the
fine pottery houses in Kraeg. Excellent quality."

"And I’ll thank you not to drop it, young lady," came a voice from across the table. A spindly old man stood up
and glared down at Izzy, and she put the bowl back quickly.

The pottery merchant looked her over and squinted. "How do you know the signs of distant guilds?" he want to know.

Izzy met his eyes. "I’m an artisan myself, and saw their wares for trade often back home."

"I see." He peered at her curiously, then demanded, "What are you doing all the way out here then?"

"I’m looking for work," she replied boldly, and gestured at the long table. "It seems like you could use some
extra eyes on your valuable wares, not to mention one with knowledge about them. For an afternoon’s pay I’ll
mind your stall, sell to the honest folk and keep thieves’ hands away."

The merchant raised his eyebrows, and for a moment you were sure he was going to snap at her again. Instead,
after a moment, he chuckled. "All right then, let’s see what you can do."

Izzy turned to you brightly. "Meet me back here this evening?"

You nodded, still startled at the vendor’s abrupt manner, and turned to exploring the rest of the town on your
own. When you met Izzy later for supper, you remarked,

"It must have been stressful working with that pottery trader all day. He was so sharp with you!"

"Alec? Oh, no, he’s fine." Izzy chuckled. "He’s Jaywood folk, they’re all like that. It’s a harsh place
and it breeds harsh people, but he’s honest, and respects other honest folk." She yawned. "It did tire me out,
though. Let’s get some rest. Long way to go tomorrow."


The next morning, you set out bright and early for the third town.

After a thoughtful silence, Izzy said simply, "I journeyed across the ocean looking for a perfect stone. A gem of
great size, still rough from the earth, of high quality ..."

She trailed off, and shook her head. "There are plenty of cut gems for sale or trade, and a few whose rough edges
simply hide internal flaws. But nothing like what I’m trying to replace. That piece was one of a kind."

"So what are you going to do now?" you asked sympathetically.

"The only thing I can do," Izzy replied. "Go home and face my mistake. I will beg my uncle’s forgiveness for
destroying a treasure, and ask to continue my apprenticeship. If not?" She shrugged helplessly. "I’m good with
my hands, and I’ve grown accustomed now to traveling. I’ll go back to the road, and find what opportunity I may."

You paused at a stream to refill your waterskins, and moments later the shouting of children came across the
bank. You were joined by a large family, traveling along the same road. Their children giggled and splashed in the
cool water, and you stopped for a while to play with them while their parents rested. When you were all ready to
depart, you continued as a group, chatting amiably about the favorable travel weather and your respective destinations.

When he heard that Izzy was looking for work, the father of the playful brood looked up hopefully. "We’ve been
away from home for a few months, and I’m sure the place has gone to pieces. It would be great to have some extra
hands to get everything uncovered and tidy ... at least until the kids make their own messes again." He grinned
ruefully. "What do you say? We can give you room and board for a couple of days, and spare a little coin besides?" He
glanced at his wife, and she nodded her assent. "I know it’s not glamorous, but it would be a great help to us."

Izzy looked at you. "Would you be all right for a couple of days? I don’t want to delay you."

You assured her it was fine, and the man grinned. "You’ve lightened my load today, that’s for sure. You’ll
love the house. Made from real Jaywood timber, it is. They grow real quality hard woods out there, like you don’t
see in these parts. Shipped it over myself!"

You raised your eyebrows. "You’re a merchant?"

He shook his head. "A sailor. Born and raised on the harbor at Kraeg. But I ordered that cargo and worked for its
passage." He grinned proudly at you.

You walked through the rest of the afternoon, and the children gradually tired themselves out from running ahead and
grew quiet. As daylight dimmed and the lights of town began showing themselves in the distance, Izzy asked worriedly,

"Are you sure it’s all right for me to stay? Your wife has said nothing this whole time, and I’m afraid she’s
avoiding offending me."

"Oh, no." The man gave her a warm smile. "She’s just a quiet one. From Hiri, you know. They live so far apart
up there, they don’t get much use out of pleasantries. But she likes you. She let me know, in her way."

Izzy accepted this explanation and the employment. When you met up with her again on the evening of the third day,
she was dusty but elated.

"He’s right," she told you, "The house is beautiful. There’s an awful lot of it, though!" She laughed, and
tried again to brush some stubborn grime off her sleeve.

"I hope so, with all those kids running around," you replied. "Ready to go?"

Izzy nodded. "They were generous people, too. I’m well on my way to what it’ll take to buy passage home."


After almost a week on the road, the squawk of gulls overhead heralded your approach to a modest shipping town. Its
harbor was small and shallow, but its great distance from the larger port far up the coast still attracted a few
ships whose destinations were further southward. You spent the afternoon exploring the piers with Izzy, and found
three ships readying to make ocean crossings: one whose cargo was bound for Kraeg, one for Jaywood, and one for Hiri.

Izzy spoke to each captain, and then rejoined you with a sigh.

"I found a berth on the ship that’s going home, but I still don’t have quite enough to pay for it, and
they’re casting off in just a few minutes." For the first time, you heard clearly the homesickness in her
voice. "I can’t let it go, not after all this time." Izzy’s face turned hopeful. "It’s not too much. Only
thirty crows short. Maybe I can find someone in town who’ll buy …" She glanced down at her bag, and with a
pang you remembered the soapstone bear. Before you could say anything, Izzy hurried away.

Thirty crows. The toll at the mountain pass. There was plenty of money left in your pouch, and it didn’t take
long to reach a decision. But you had to act quickly to get the fare to the right captain and go after Izzy before
she sold the beautiful sculpture.

What had you learned about Kraeg, Jaywood, and Hiri? The people? The trade? The terrain? What had you learned
about Izzy?

Which ship would take her home?

